<title>Building</title>
<h4>Linux</h4>

In order to build Jsi on Linux, a few packages need to be installed.
On Ubuntu we do this:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
sudo apt-get install build-essential bison cmake libreadline-dev
</pre></nowiki>

Then just type <b>make</b> (in the jsi directory).

<h4>Build Options</h4>

Jsi does not use configure.
Instead, various build options are controled via <b>make</b> command-line options:

    <nowiki>
<table border='1' class='optstbl' ><tr><th>Option</th><th>Description</th></tr>
<tr ><td >EXTSRC=name</td><td >Root name of a .c file to build in as a user extension</td></tr>
<tr ><td >EXTNAME=name</td><td >User extension name for above (if different)</td></tr>
<tr ><td >NOSQLITE=1</td><td >Exclude sqlite support</td></tr>
<tr ><td >NOWEBSOCK=1</td><td >Exclude websockets</td></tr>
<tr ><td >USEMUSL=1</td><td >Static, zero dependancy build with Musl-libc</td></tr>
<tr ><td >USEMINIZ=1</td><td >Use the miniz compression extension, instead of builtin -lz</td></tr>
<tr ><td >WIN=1</td><td >Cross-compile to Windows binary</td></tr>
<tr ><td >ZIPDIR=name</td><td >Directory to zip to end of binary <b>jsiz</b> (default dir is <b>zdir</b>)</td></tr>
</table>
</nowiki>

For example, the following builds without WebSockets :

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make NOWEBSOCK=1
</pre></nowiki>

<h4>Windows</h4>

To build for Windows, first install the Mingw32 package on Linux:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
sudo apt-get install gcc-mingw32
</pre></nowiki>

Jsi can be cross compiled to Windows using:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make WIN=1
</pre></nowiki>

Note, you must do this twice, as it will initially fail.

Note that some features (eg. signals) are currently disabled in the Windows build. 
There are also minor differences in some file-system access functions.

<h4>Static Build</h4>

A static build is useful when you need a standalone executable with no external dependancies.

To create a static image, Jsi uses the Musl library.

The first step is to download [http://www.musl-libc.org|Musl] and unpack it.
Then change to the musl dir and:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
 ./configure --prefix=$HOME/usr && make install
</pre></nowiki>

Ensure that <i>~/usr/bin</i> is in your path with export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/usr/bin. 
Then back in the jsi dir do the following:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
echo '#define __P(x) x' > ~/usr/include/sys/cdefs.h
echo '#include <miniz/zlib.h>' >  ~/usr/include/zlib.h
cp -pr miniz ~/usr/include/
</pre></nowiki>

A static jsish can be built with:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make USEMUSL=1
</pre></nowiki>

You must do this twice, as it will initially fail.
The resulting executable will require no system libraries.


<h4>Basic Extension</h4>

The following steps detail a simple way to add your own code to Jsi.  Code is placed in the <i>user</i> directory,
and <b>make</b> invoked with the <i>EXTSRC=name</i> argument. The named code gets linked into the Jsi build.
Example

The sample extension user/demo.c included with the Jsi distribution. 
It simply creates a new javascript method demo() that echo's its arguments.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
#include "jsi.h"

Jsi_CmdProcDecl(DemoCmd) {
    int i, n = Jsi_ValueGetLength(interp, args);
    printf("demo called with %d args\n", n);
    for (i=0; i<n; i++) {
        Jsi_Value *v = Jsi_ValueArrayIndex(interp, args, i);
        char *cp = Jsi_ValueToString(interp, v);
        printf("Arg %d = '%s'\n", i, cp);
    }
    return JSI_OK;
}

int Jsi_Initdemo(Jsi_Interp *interp) {
    puts("LOADED DEMO");
    Jsi_CommandCreate(interp, "demo", DemoCmd, NULL);
    return JSI_OK;
}
</pre></nowiki>

To build this into the application:
<nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
  make EXTSRC=demo
</pre></nowiki>


<h4>Multi-method Object Extension</h4>

Sometimes in javascript it is desirable to create a new object with a number of related methods, 
rather than just single commands. This is achieved by registering a table of methods.

The sample extension user/demos.c comes included with the 
Jsi distribution does this:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
#include "jsi.h"

Jsi_CmdProcDecl(DemoCmd) {
    int i, n = Jsi_ValueGetLength(interp, args);
    printf("demo called with %d args\n", n);
    for (i=0; i<n; i++) {
        Jsi_Value *v = Jsi_ValueArrayIndex(interp, args, i);
        const char *cp = Jsi_ValueToString(interp, v);
        printf("Arg %d = '%s'\n", i, cp);
    }
    return JSI_OK;
}

Jsi_CmdSpec demoCmds[] = {
  { "foo", DemoCmd, 0, -1, "...", .help="foo command" },
  { "bar", DemoCmd, 1, -1, "...", .help="bar command" },
  { NULL, .help="Demo commands" }
};

int Jsi_Initdemos(Jsi_Interp *interp) {
    Jsi_CmdSpecsCreate(interp, "demos",   demoCmds,   NULL, JSI_CMDSPEC_NOTOBJ);
    return JSI_OK;
}
</pre></nowiki>
To build this into the application:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
make EXTSRC=demos
</pre></nowiki>

This named code gets linked into the Jsi build. At startup it simply creates new javascript methods 
demos.foo() and demos.bar().

