<title>C-API: DStrings</title>
DString provides dynamic strings in which
heap memory allocation occurs only when strings grows beyond 200 characters.

This is intended to be efficient for handling the relatively common case of text short lines.

A DString can be initialized at declaration thus:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Jsi_DString d1 = {"Here is"};
Jsi_DSAppend(&d1 ," your score: ", NULL);
Jsi_DSPrintf(&d1, " -> %d/%d", 99, 100);
puts(Jsi_DSValue(&d1)); // "Here is your score: -> 99/100"
Jsi_DSFree(&d1);
</pre></nowiki>

But the more efficient initialization uses Jsi_DSInit():

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Jsi_DString d;
Jsi_DSInit(&d);
Jsi_DSAppend(&d, "Some stuff", NULL);
Jsi_DSFree(&d);
</pre></nowiki>

Jsi_DSFree is called to release malloced space, if any.

Alternatively to instead reuse the space, you can truncate it with Jsi_DSSetLength:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Jsi_DString d = {};
Jsi_DSPrintf(&d , "%0300d", 1); // Malloc
Jsi_DSSetLength(&d, 0);
Jsi_DSPrintf(&d , "%0300d", 1); // No-malloc
Jsi_DSFree(&d);
Jsi_DSPrintf(&d , "%0300d", 1); // Malloc
Jsi_DSFree(&d);
</pre></nowiki>

<h3>Implementation</h3>

Following is the C declaration for DString:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
typedef struct {
    char *str;
    int len;
    int spaceAvl;
    int staticSize;
    char staticSpace[200];
} Jsi_DString;
</pre></nowiki>

and the function signatures are:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
char*   Jsi_DSAppend(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *str, ...);
char*   Jsi_DSAppendLen(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *bytes, int length); 
void    Jsi_DSFree(Jsi_DString *dsPtr);
char*   Jsi_DSFreeDup(Jsi_DString *dsPtr); 
void    Jsi_DSInit(Jsi_DString *dsPtr); 
int     Jsi_DSLength(Jsi_DString *dsPtr);
char*   Jsi_DSPrintf(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *fmt, ...);
char*   Jsi_DSSet(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *str); 
int     Jsi_DSSetLength(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, int length);
char*   Jsi_DSValue(Jsi_DString *dsPtr);
#define JSI_DSTRING_VAR(varPtr,size) //...
</pre></nowiki>


<h3>Function Summary</h3>

    <p><nowiki>
<table border='1' class='cmdstbl' ><tr ><th  >Name</th><th  >Description</th></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSAppend</td><td >Append one or more string arguments (plus NULL sentinal).</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSAppendLen</td><td >Append a string of given length (or -1 for strlen).</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSFree</td><td >Release allocated memory and sets variable back to re-initialized/empty.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSFreeDup</td><td >Return malloced string, then calls Jsi_DSFree.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSInit</td><td >Initialize the variable, ignoring current data therein.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSLength</td><td >Return the length.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSPrintf</td><td >Format output and append to DString. Returns string from the current printf.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSSet</td><td >Same as Jsi_DSSetLength(dsPtr,0) plus Jsi_AppendLen.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSSetLength</td><td>If &lt; current length truncates string. Else sets min allocated space. Return allocated size.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >Jsi_DSValue</td><td >Return string value.</td></tr>
<tr ><td >JSI_DSTRING_VAR</td><td >Macro that declares a large DString on the stack.</td></tr>
</table></nowiki>

<h3>Functions Details</h3>

The following contains detailed descriptions of the DString functions.

<hr>
<h4>char*   Jsi_DSAppend(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *str, ...)</h4>

  Calls <b>Jsi_DSAppendLen</b> for each string value argument, passing in <b>-1</b> for the length.
  Each string is assumed to be null terminated and the final argument must be a <b>NULL</b>.

  <b>RETURNS:</b> The string starting at the first appended character.

<hr>
<h4>char*   Jsi_DSAppendLen(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *bytes, int length)</h4>

  Append length bytes to the DString. If length is &lt; 0,
  the value of <b>strlen</b> is used.  If required, the DString is realloced to
  be large enough to contain bytes, plus an extra null byte that is added to the end.
 
  <b>RETURNS:</b> The string starting at the first appended character.

<hr>
<h4>void    Jsi_DSFree(Jsi_DString *dsPtr)</h4>

  Frees any allocated space and sets the DString back to empty such that it is safe to exit the scope.
  Or the DString may be reused (also see <b>Jsi_DSSetLength</b>). 

<hr>
<h4>char*   Jsi_DSFreeDup(Jsi_DString *dsPtr)</h4>

  Returns the malloced string value and resets the DString in the same way as </b>Jsi_DSFree</b>.
  This just avoids the user having to do an extra malloc/free if the DString was already malloced.
  It is then the responsibility of the caller to free the returned value.

  <b>RETURNS:</b> The string that was contained in the DString.

<hr>
<h4>void    Jsi_DSInit(Jsi_DString *dsPtr)</h4>

  Initialize a DString.

<hr>
<h4>int     Jsi_DSLength(Jsi_DString *dsPtr)</h4>

  <b>RETURNS:</b>The string length dsPtr->len.

<hr>
<h4>char*   Jsi_DSPrintf(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *fmt, ...)</h4>

  Perform <b>printf</b> style string formatting as directed by the <b>fmt</b> string.
  Under the covers, this utilizes <b>vsnprintf</b>.

  <b>RETURNS:</b> The string starting at the first appended character.

<hr>
<h4>char*   Jsi_DSSet(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, const char *str)</h4> 

  Same as calling <i>Jsi_DSSetLength(dsPtr,0)</i> followed by <i>Jsi_DSAppendLen(dsPtr,str)</i>.
  Sets the DString to str without freeing any allocated space.
  But note that it is <b>not</b> safe to exit the scope without first calling <b>Jsi_DSFree</b>.

<hr>
<h4>int    Jsi_DSSetLength(Jsi_DString *dsPtr, int length)</h4>

  Depending on dsPtr->len, truncates a string or sets the minimum allocated space.
  
  *  If <b>length</b> is &lt; 0, does nothing and just returns the current size allocation.
  *  if <b>length</b> is &lt; current length, the string is truncated.
  *  Otherwise, enforces the allocated space is at least <b>length</b>.
  
  <b>Note:</b> Does not set dsPtr->len unless truncating.
  Also an extra byte is always added to the allocation,
  but this is not reported in the allocated length.

  <b>RETURNS:</b> The currently allocated size. ie. the size of the maximum string that
  will fit without a call to realloc.

<hr>
<h4>char*   Jsi_DSValue(Jsi_DString *dsPtr)</h4>

  Gets the current string value.
  
  <b>RETURNS:</b> The string dsPtr->str.

<hr>
<h4>#define JSI_DSTRING_VAR(varPtr,size) //...</h4>

  Declares a DString struct and pointer in the current stack frame.  See the next section on <b>Large Strings</b>.

<hr>

<h3>Large String Buffers</h3>

When working with larger strings, we may want to preallocate a large
string in order to avoid repeated calls to realloc() as the string grows.
The normal approach might be something like:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Jsi_DString dStr;
Jsi_DSInit(&dStr);
Jsi_DSSetLength(&dStr, 50000);
</pre></nowiki>

Another alternative is to use the <b>JSI_DSTRING_VAR</b> macro, which avoids using malloc entirely.
JSI_DSTRING_VAR efficiently declares a Jsi_DString* pointing to an enlarged static DString upon the stack: eg:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
JSI_DSTRING_VAR(dsPtr, 50000);
Jsi_DSPrintf(dsPtr, "%04999d", 1); // No malloc.
</pre></nowiki>

Note that the specified size can even be passed in as a function parameter.

<h3>Comparison With C++</h3>

C++ <b>stringstream</b> provides convenient dynamic string support with type safety.

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
std::stringstream str;
str << "ABC " << 123;
puts(str.str().c_str());
</pre></nowiki>

There are however tradeoffs:

  *  Plain C code can not use them.
  *  There is implicit memory allocation.
  *  There is implicit code execution.
  *  It is awkward to obtain the <B>C</B> string value.
  *  It is almost impossible to inspect a stringstream value in the gdb debugger.

Although DString can not match all of the conveniences of stringstream (eg. variable assignment),
it does offer a simple way to add dynamic string support to ordinary C while
giving finer control over resource usage. 
It also provide comparable formatting without the memory allocation penalty:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Tcl_DString dstr = {};
Tcl_DSPrintf(&dstr, "ABC %d", 123);
puts(dstr.str);
</pre></nowiki>

Modern compilers have become quite good at warning about mismatched
arguments and sequences, and this makes printf semantics quite safe.
Moreover, when sophisticated output control is required,
printf modifiers are frequently simpler, more compact and readable than their
<i>stringstream</i> counterparts:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
Tcl_DSPrintf(&dstr, "%02d%-3d%04d", v1, v2, v3);
str << std::setfill('0') << std::setw(2) << v1 
    << std::setfill(' ') << std::setw(3) << std::left  << v2
    << std::setfill('0') << std::setw(4) << std::right << v3;
</pre></nowiki>

Manipulators stickiness is not particularly intuitive.

And the DString implementation is smaller, simpler, and easier to debug than the
template, inheritance and overloading of stringstream.

<h3>DString Safety</h3>

Since the gcc compiler generates warnings for Jsi_DSPrintf argument mismatches
and Jsi_DSAppend missing NULL terminator, typical usage is quite safe.

There however are some gotchas to be aware of:

  *  If Jsi_DSFree is not called when leaving a scope, memory leaks can occur.
  *  Calling Jsi_DSFree on an uninitialized DString can cause a seg fault.
  *  It is unsafe to assign one DString to another: if memory allocation has occurred you will get leaks and/or crashes.
  *  The maximum size limit of a DString is 100 Meg.

This demands more attention to detail from programmers.

<h3>Miscellaneous</h3>

Although DString is comes built in to Jsi, it can also be used standalone, ie. without the rest of Jsi
compiled in:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
/* main.c: Compile with "cc main.c jsiDString.c" */
#include <stdio.h>
#include "jsi.h"
int main() {
    Jsi_DString d = {"Here is"};
    Jsi_DSAppend(&d ," your score: ", NULL);
    puts(Jsi_DSValue(&d));
    Jsi_DSFree(&d);
}
</pre></nowiki>


Note that Jsi_DString is modelled loosely after Tcl_DString from the Tcl language.


